hungry displaced stressed and
Pregnant doctors say these conditions
are fueling a surge and miscarriages
across Gaza surviving the war has been
difficult
enough but for many pregnant women
giving birth poses yet another
challenge I came for a follow-up visit
but they told me the baby had no
heartbeat I was told it was likely due
to lack of Medicine and malnutrition
this is my fifth day at the hospital and
I don't know what to do after nearly
eight months of Israel's Onslaught
adequate Emergency Care is no longer
available for many expectant
mothers before the war the rate of
miscarriages was low about one or two
cases a day but now there's so much
panic and fear we see up to 10
miscarriages on a daily
basis supplies of medicine and Equipment
are limited and often non-existent women
are also undergoing C-sections without
anesthesia doctors say the war has led
to a rapid surge in miscarriages and
premature births induced in part by high
stress about 60,000 pregnant women in
Gaza have little to no access to
adequate prenatal Health Services the
International Rescue committee says only
two partially functioning hospitals
offer maternity services
the pregnant women who have miscarried
face a lot of psychological suffering
there's a lack of emotional support from
the medical staff as well who are also
facing great psychological pressures due
to the war these conditions are making
things worse months of bombings attacks
and Devastation have led to widespread
trauma I was in Rafa and had been
pregnant 4 months I came to the hospital
in pain I've experienced a lot of fear
and exhaustion I myself had been caring
for the sick and injured I think this
led me to
miscarry the war has created terrible
conditions for Palestinians in Gaza and
now increasingly also for The
Unborn
K Al
jaaz anah flansburg is head of policy
advocacy and press at Cav cavina that's
wom tooman Foundation is an advocacy
group for women in Conflict affected
areas and she joins us now from
Stockholm good to have you with us anaka
your organization is describing what's
happening to women in Gaza as OB
obstetric violence I mean these are
strong words that you're using they seem
to be relevant can you give us more of
an idea as to why you have labeled at
this yeah first of all thank you so much
for having us here at the show and for
bringing up this really crucial area and
uh say the K Foundation we supported
women's Organization for 30 years in
Conflict affected regions and we have
Partners in Gaza for over 20 years and
what we are seeing now I mean there have
been the reports about gender based
violence since the 7th and sexual based
violence since the 7th of October but
what we hear from our partners is this
ongoing everyday violence that women
pregnant women are facing uh because of
their pregnan because of that um
hospitals are being bombed about the
indiscriminate the ongoing bom
bombardment as we heard about from
your uh news before here and the ongoing
displacement and we see this as a form
of gender-based violence as well towards
uh and retroductive violence towards
women uh who are it's approximately 180
women who are are giving birth every day
in Gaza and they are doing that under
extremely dangerous and inhumane
circumstances and their children of of
course also the newborns are of course
also under very um uh yeah ingrained
danger so we see the importance of
acknowledge this as a form of
gender-based violence and make it
visible as well and we heard there in
that report that some C-sections are
being performed without anesthesia I
mean that is unimaginable to most people
what have you heard about that and how
un Earth women can cope with
that yeah it's really unbearable to hear
the reports and we
have as we heard that women are being
forced to deliver in in buildings where
who are which are are at risk of being
bombed at the very second and they have
no there is no as you said anesthesia
and they are under great great pain and
there is no Health Facilities afterwards
there's no hygiene there's no clean
water uh so it's they are exposed to
Great uh threats uh threats and risk
health risks and the the the reports
that we get from our Partners the
witnesses there they say that there is
great pressure and Trauma and stress
which also as you said previously that
also um increases the number of
miscarriages and steelb borns and uh
premature deliveries so this is really
an ongoing violations I would say and
and that will has both devastating
effects for the individual woman and
child of course and their families but
also for for looking ahead for the
future of the of Palestine and the
people it will be have we see
generations of trauma and this will have
a long-term effect absolutely I want to
bring that back back up because of
course the whole of Gaza is traumatized
with this war but this is a particular
psychological toll that women are going
to have to bear and will be passed on to
their children we're looking at a
long-term Health Emergency here aren't
we yes
absolutely uh and we see both when it
comes to the
pre I mean during pregnancy that there
is no Health as we heard as well there's
no Health Care System there's no help
for these women to get really and during
the delivery there is very under very
difficult circumstances and also post
after the delivery if they if both the
mother and child has survived it's very
they they also say that how how should
we provide for the for our children how
can I provide for my newborn how can I
secure I mean give security and and and
food because of course the other thing
is malnutrition as you said that they
also Israel has been accused for using
starvation as a weapon of war and and we
know that there is a gender impact on
this that mothers often give food to
their children first and pregnant women
and and women who are breastfeeding are
uh really uh suffering here and they
can't provide for their children uh so
this has really long-term consequences
indeed it's a devastating uh
circumstance and a terrible situation
anakah
fburg go on just one last Point yeah one
last thing I would also say that uh it's
really important to both acknowledge
this at gender based violence but also
to see the incredible work done by local
women's organization that we support for
example women Affair Center and Aisha uh
who are protect providing psychosocial
support for these women in local
communities and they also need support
because they know what what the
situation is like okay uh and what the
needs are so I just wanted to to give
that message as well absolutely anakah
flansburg thanks very much for joining
us there from Stockholm and uh shedding
helping us shed light on the situation
for women in
Gaza thank you very much for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer